{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 \fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1 Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\widowctrl\hyphauto

{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 Cross License Foundation Agreement\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Version 1.0.0-pre.1\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://xlfoundation.com/agreement/1.0.0-pre.1"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
https://xlfoundation.com/agreement/1.0.0-pre.1
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Purpose\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 These terms enable contributors working together on a project covered by copyrights or patents to make collective decisions about changing the license terms for their project over time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Acceptance\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In order to get any license under these terms, you must apply to become a contributor, be accepted, and agree to these terms. These terms are both obligations under an agreement among all contributors and conditions to all the cross licenses they give and receive under that agreement.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Contributors\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Qualifications\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Only candidates offering contributions of copyrights or patent rights to the project can apply to become contributors.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Application\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 To apply to become a contributor, a candidate must send the following to an existing contributor:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab their {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#addresses"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
address
}}}
 for {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#communications"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
communication
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab a World Wide Web or other Internet address where contributors can review the first contribution they are offering\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab copies of, or World Wide Web links to, the terms of this agreement and the current statements of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#license-criteria"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
license criteria
}}}
 and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#communication-system"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
communication system
}}}
\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Admission\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 For a candidate to become a contributor, an existing contributor must follow each of these steps, one after another, in order:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#circulating-messages"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
circulate
}}}
 the candidate\u8217's complete application\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab secure {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#majority"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
majority approval
}}}
 in favor of their application\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#circulating-messages"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
circulate
}}}
 a current list of all contributor {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#addresses"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
addresses
}}}
, including the new contributor\u8217's\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Resignation\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Any contributor may resign at any time by {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#circulating-messages"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
circulating
}}}
 a message of resignation. When a contributor resigns, all cross licenses to that contributor end, but their cross licenses to other contributors, as well as any sublicenses they have given for {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#relicensing"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
relicensing
}}}
, continue.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Cross Licenses\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Copyright\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Each contributor gives a cross license covering all copyrights in their contributions to the project to each other contributor.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Patent\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Each contributor gives a cross license for the project covering any patent claims they can license or become able to license to each other contributor.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Scope\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Each cross license under these terms covers all contributors, past, present, and future, and all contributions submitted to the project, past, present, and future.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Rights\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Cross licenses under these terms do not give contributors themselves any special permission for the project, only permission to {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#relicense"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
relicense
}}}
.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Relicensing\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Any contributor may relicense the project as a whole by granting a sublicense under new terms meeting any {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#license-criteria"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
license criteria
}}}
 in effect at the time within thirty calendar days of securing {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#majority"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
majority approval
}}}
. When {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#soliciting-votes"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
soliciting votes
}}}
 for relicensing, a contributor must {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#circulating-messages"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
circulate
}}}
:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab identification of the contributor proposing to relicense the project\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab an exact copy of the new license terms\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab an exact copy of all the terms of any agreement that has, will, or could compensate the contributor for proposing or securing approval of the relicensing\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 License Criteria\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The first two contributors must agree on any criteria for terms on which the project can be relicensed. They must publish a dated statement of those criteria, or a dated statement that there are no criteria, together with the terms of this agreement, where potential contributors can find and read them. No contributor can relicense the project onto new terms that fail to meet the license criteria. Any contributor may change the license criteria by securing {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#supermajority"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
supermajority approval
}}}
 in favor of the change.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Communications\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Equal Information\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Each contributor is entitled to receive each message sent to any other contributor under these terms.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Circulating Messages\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 To circulate a message under these terms, a contributor must send the message in the English language to each other contributor, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#retry"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
retrying
}}}
 as necessary.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Circulating Notices\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Any contributor who receives a notice under the terms of a relicensing must {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#circulating-messages"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
circulate
}}}
 that notice, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#retrying"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
retrying
}}}
 as necessary.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Addresses\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The first two contributors must agree on a global, free or low-cost, high-speed, electronic communication system, such as e-mail, and provide addresses for that system. They must publish dated statement of that choice, together with the terms of this agreement, where potential contributors can find and read them. Later contributors must provide addresses for the same system.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Change of Address\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Any contributor may change their address by {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#circulating-messages"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
circulating
}}}
 their new address from their current address. Alternatively, any contributor may change their address by {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#circulating-messages"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
circulating
}}}
 their new address from a different address and securing {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#supermajority"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
supermajority approval
}}}
, without any opposing message from their old address.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Voting\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Equal Vote\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Each contributor is entitled to cast a single, equal vote on each proposal under these terms.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Majority\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 For majority approval, a majority of responding contributors must vote in favor.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Supermajority\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 For supermajority approval, two thirds of responding contributors must vote in favor.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Counting\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The contributor soliciting approval counts as a contributor voting in favor.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Deadline\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The deadline for approval of any proposal is thirty calendar days from when {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#soliciting-votes"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
votes were first solicited
}}}
.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Securing Approval\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 To secure an approval, a contributor must {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#soliciting-votes"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
solicit votes
}}}
, then {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#tallying-votes"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
tally votes
}}}
, and finally {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#reporting-results"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
report the result
}}}
.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Soliciting Votes\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 To solicit votes, a contributor must {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#circulating-messages"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
circulate
}}}
 a single message with all of these details:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab the identity of the project\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab the complete text of the proposal\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab the voting standard required\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 4.\tx360\tab the date of the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#deadline"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
deadline
}}}
\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Casting Votes\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Contributors may vote by replying to a message soliciting votes using the same communication system. Messages like \u8220"I approve.\u8221", \u8220"I vote in favor.\u8221", and \u8220"Aye\u8221" count as votes in favor. Messages like \u8220"I oppose.\u8221", \u8220"I vote against.\u8221", and \u8220"Nay\u8221" count as votes against.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Tallying Votes\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 To tally votes, the contributor who solicited votes must ensure that each vote message is {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#circulating-messages"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
circulated
}}}
. If the communication system enables forwarding messages verbatim, such as by forwarding e-mail, the contributor must forward vote messages verbatim. If a voting contributor {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#circulating-messages"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
circulates
}}}
 their vote themself, the contributor soliciting votes need not {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#circulating-messages"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
circulate
}}}
 it again.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Reporting Results\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 To report a result, the contributor who solicited votes must {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#circulating-messages"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
circulate
}}}
 a single message with all of these details within seven calendar days after the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#deadline"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
deadline
}}}
:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab all the information required to {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#soliciting-votes"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
solicit votes
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab copies of all {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#voting"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
vote messages
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab counts of votes in favor, votes against, and contributors not responding by the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#deadline"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
deadline
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 4.\tx360\tab whether contributors approved the proposal or not\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Retry\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 When a {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#communications"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
communication
}}}
 system fails to deliver a message:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab The sending contributor must {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#circulating-messages"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
circulate
}}}
 word of the failure and any failure message from the system.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab The sending contributor must wait forty-eight hours, then try again. If the receiving contributor {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#change-of-address"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
changed
}}}
 their {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#address"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
address
}}}
 since the first try, the sending contributor must use the new {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#address"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
address
}}}
.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab If the second try also fails, the sending contributor must {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#circulating-messages"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
circulate
}}}
 word of the failure and any failure message from the system. The receiving contributor is then considered to be not responding.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Broken Rules\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If any contributor unintentionally breaks a rule of these terms at the expense of another contributor, and the contributor who was wronged {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#circulating-messages"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
circulates
}}}
 a message about the breach, other contributors can keep their cross licenses from the contributor who was wronged if any one or more of them makes the situation right within fourteen calendar days. If the contributor did not get an {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#equal-vote"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
equal vote
}}}
, contributors must retake the vote. If the contributor did not get {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#equal-information"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
equal information
}}}
, contributors must {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#cirulating-messages"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
circulate
}}}
 the message again, and if any vote was taken between when the message was not sent and when the contributor finally received it, contributors must retake that vote.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Changes\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Any contributor may change these terms by securing {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#supermajority"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
supermajority approval
}}}
 in favor of the change. Changes apply from the time of approval going forward, not retroactively.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 No Liability\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b {\i As far as the law allows, the project comes as is, without any warranty or condition, and no contributor will be liable to any other contributor for any damages related to the use or quality of the project, under any kind of legal claim.}}\par}
}
