{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 \fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1 Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\widowctrl\hyphauto

{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 Cross License Foundation Founders\u8217' Worksheet\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Version 1.0.0-pre.2\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://xlfoundation.com/worksheet/1.0.0-pre.2"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
https://xlfoundation.com/worksheet/1.0.0-pre.2
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Last Updated: \{date\}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Instructions\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Founders of new cross license foundations should fill out and date this worksheet, then publish it, along with the Cross License Foundation Agreement, where potential contributors can find and read them.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Communication System\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 What system will contributors use to communicate? The system must be global, free or low-cost, high-speed, and electronic. In the vast majority of cases, this should be \u8220"e-mail\u8221".\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 License Criteria\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 What criteria must new license terms for the project meet? For example:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi0 The new license terms must grant licenses to the public as a whole, or to anyone who receives a copy of the project.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi0 The new license must be completely free of any license fee, royalty, or other charge.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi0 The new license must be a new version of \{specific license\} published by \{license steward\} or its legal successor.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi0 The new license must appear on the \{list\} published by \{organization\} or its legal successor.\par}
}
